---
path: "/overview"
date: "2020-03-22"
title: "Coalition of Digital Engagements in Syracuse (CODES)"
---

In the narrowest focus, CODES will grow from a group of like-minded individuals into a community development organization. It will offer opportunities for Syracusans to join the tech community and show the outside world that there is a tight tech community in Syracuse.
Yet, as with the best community development organizations it will mean far more than good PR for Syracuse Tech. To the extent that it offers the citizenry more than opportunities to work on and to display digital skills, it will do so because of the broader direction that the world is going, which has more to do with progress of our individuals, our city, and our nation. The Southern Christian Leadership Conference's fight for civil rights became more than a legislative battle, but a marker of progress towards a nation that accepts all of its people as deserving of dignity. America's ambition to put a man on the moon became more than an endeavor in scientific conquest, but a symbol of how much a nation can accomplish when its people work together. So too CODES aims to be more than an organization that promotes technology; it should be judged on the sense of belonging, purpose, and hope for the future that it brings to the citizens of the City of Syracuse.  
  
CODES will organize the tech engineers of the Syracuse Tech community. Under the umbrella of CODES, engineers will have a collective way to engage in the community they work in through mentorship and volunteer opportunities. As valuable as the opportunities will be to the engineers, even more valuable will be the benefits to those citizens who receive mentoring, those non-profits who receive engineering support, those city officials who collaborate on open data projects. The collective efforts will create subtle, meaningful, and lasting improvements to Syracuse's population that will make the city more attractive to the world.
At just the time when the broader world is looking at the follies of Silicon Valley giants with a wary eye, CODES will be providing a new refuge for people who are looking for a home that delivers on its promise:  Syracuse welcomes everyone. To keep this promise CODES will partner with local community organizations in a symbiotic relationship. The community organizations will promote CODES's mentorship and volunteer opportunities. CODES will provide visibility, promotion, and shared resources to those same organizations.  
  
CODES continues to organize the many tech groups of Syracuse under a single umbrella by unifying them on Slack, on Meetup, and above all, in person.  CODES will also be marketed to the university students at OCC, LeMoyne, and Syracuse University to boost the interest and awareness of students. Not only will students have ready-access to local professionals to serve as mentors, they will learn about job opportunities that exist for them here, and just may find a career in the city that keeps them around for a lifetime.  
  
While the rest of the world contends with a high turnover of population, Syracuse has stability. And with that stability we can do more to organize the community for the long-term.
